have you been in the dark
when it comes to html and css well
i'm gonna show you exactly how to create
this fully responsive design that works
in a browser in your tablets and your
phones
here in this crash course
[Music]
hello everybody what's up gary simon
here so it's the beginning of 2021 and i
like to do refresher crash courses
uh in various topics and html css and
basically
front-end development is one of them
that i like to do
so just a couple weeks ago i showed you
all
how to create this design here using
adobe experience design
in a crash course that i made pretty
nice modern looking design
has a mobile version and so that's what
i'm going to do
in this video we're going to make this a
reality in the browser and make it work
and i'll show you one more time i and
we're going to make it function
by writing html and css
i in a little bit of javascript just to
make that little mobile menu work
and it's going to be fully responsive or
in other words it's going to work
on multiple devices no matter what the
device size is it's going to look and
work and function
great all right so a couple things i
want to mention before we start who is
this crash course for well if you're
a beginner and you just want kind of
like a quick look at what front-end
development
is which is the writing of html css and
javascript
i this will be for you but i have to say
it is a crash course i'm packing so much
information here sometimes it's
intermediate to advanced level concepts
that there's no way if you're an
absolute beginner that
by the end of watching this you're going
to be able to just do this on your own
without
looking up google or whatever you're
going to your head's going to be
spinning
but if you pay close attention you
should walk away with a pretty
decent understanding of how all this
stuff works
and that's my goal so of course if
you're intermediate
you could also probably take away even
more from this course because you're
going to have that foundational
experience first
but nonetheless i am going to do my best
to explain all the basic concepts as
much as possible as it pertains to html
css in that tiny little bit of
javascript
so without that but that said one more
thing i do want to show you
is if you're interested in ui ux design
go to my site designcourse.com
right now it's not ready yet so you have
to enter your email to be notified but
it might be ready depending on when
you're watching this
alright so with that said make sure to
subscribe if you enjoy this
and let's get started up but wait one
second you're about to watch my crash
course on front end development
now if you're really interested in
learning front-end development
in a robust environment then you should
definitely check out the sponsor of
this video scrimma.com they've recently
launched their front-end development
career path which is a collection of
courses that cover html
css javascript react and much much more
as you see
it's over 75 hours of awesome content
there are hundreds of interactive coding
challenges and it's all geared towards
helping you go from beginner to someone
that's hireable as a front-end developer
so check out the first link in the
description below to get 50
off all right so when it comes to
front-end development
the very first thing that you need
before you write any code is going to be
a place to write your code or a piece of
software and that is referred to as a
code editor
all right so there are many different
code editors
but the one that's been most popular in
my experience for the last
four or five years or so is visual
studio code does this mean that you have
to use it
no if there's something else like
sublime text or something else that
you've been using
and you're more comfortable with that go
right ahead but visual studio code is
what i'm going to be using
it's free and i it's it's very robust
it's easy to use as well so that's what
we're going to use so if you want to
download that you haven't yet just go
to code.visualstudio.com this is from
microsoft
like i said it's free and just download
it and install it it also has a mac os
version as well
all right and so once you get that
installed go ahead and run it
and when you run it you're going to see
something like this basically
um what we want is we want to start a
new
project um so i've created
a folder already in fact i
if we go right here to view and we come
down to a terminal
you'll see right here we have like a
code area it's like basically where
um you're currently currently at in
terms of your folders
um so if you want to make like a new
project folder for this
don't type that command just wait a
second um
go ahead and just type in mkdir that
means make directory or directory is
another name for a folder
and then just name it something like 20
21 front end
like that and then hit enter and that
gave me that error because i already
created that folder
but assuming it doesn't exist for you as
well it'll let you it'll automatically
create it
and then after creating it you type cd
front end now we can close this and then
you can go to open
folder and then just choose 2021 front
end you may have to navigate to your
folder depending on where you're at in
your
your current machine um and then when
you do that just hit select folder and
then it'll be this blank
area so right here i'll just do a real
quick and extremely quick overview of
the user interface here
with visual studio code over here you
have you're basically like a
sidebar navigation where we have what's
called the explorer
and when you click on it it kind of
collapses this area right here which is
referred to as the
explorer right here we're not going to
be running and debugging anything
you can search for files and folders
like that
you have what's called source control
again we're not going to be messing with
that at all
and then we also have plugins and we're
going to install two different plugins
here
um the live sas compiler so if you
search for that just type live sas
compiler and then click on it
there will be an install button right
here i already have it installed
so install that and then also live
server as well
we'll install that too and then um when
you install these
uh it'll automatically restart uh visual
studio code
so then you're gonna find uh in a second
you're you're gonna find the actual code
editor when we create files
so we want to create a file right here
we're going to click on this little new
file
button and we're going to name it
index.html all right so whenever you're
working with html files
you give it a name and then dot html
hit enter and after creating that you'll
see we have this little icon and then it
creates this little document right here
with this blinking cursor and all the
code lines this is where you write your
html
exciting stuff now before we write
anything
we're going to also create a folder all
right so
in this folder we're going to name it
css do we have to create a css folder no
but it's nice to have your files
organized and so we're going to create
inside of here with once this is
selected
another file and then we're going to
name that
i think i'll just name this main dot
s-c-s-s
now you're probably wondering why not
write it as main.css
well that's a great question you can if
you just want to write what's called
strict
css you can just put main.css right here
if you wish
but i'm going to use something called
sas which is css with a few different
super powers
and i'll explain that in a second but
that's why we
installed the live sas compiler plugin
so i'm going to right click rename this
to s c s s all right
and then we're going to click right here
after you have that live sas compiler
installed
watch sas all right it's going to bring
up the terminal area
or the output area rather we can just
hide this for now
now when we did that it created these
two other files you can ignore the
dot map file but we could see that
there's also a main.css file
all right and it's empty basically this
is just a comment
i and so what it's doing is when we
start to write css a little bit later on
in this course it's going to take
everything we write here and it's going
to
basically compile it down into regular
css
you'll see the difference when we get to
the css portion so hopefully i'm not
confusing you too much but
you should understand once we get to
that point in time all right
so we go back to our index.html
um we're also going to right click on
the index.html file
open with live server and that's the
live server plugin that we
installed so this won't be there if you
didn't install it so
now it's opened up your browser all
right you see we have this big blank
page
it may say 127.0.0.1 cool and 5500
forward slash your index.html um so this
is what your site will look like
when it's in the browser now one thing
that's awesome about this
live server plugin is every time you
make an adjustment or an
update in your code and hit save like
control
s it will reflect that automatically
automatically refresh the browser for
you so
because we're going to get started with
with what's called
mobile first css mobile first design
we're going to take our browser and
squish it into the
you know into almost what looks like to
be a really large
uh really tall phone all right so that's
why i'm pushing this all the way over to
the right side of my browser
um we're also going to yeah as you can
see live reloads not possible without a
body or a head tag
don't worry about that we'll fix that in
a second so i'm going to go ahead and
take this over here
our visual studio code window and then
put it right next to there
so now we have both of these in view so
that we can see
what we're doing all right so that
little error or the little message that
just showed up it can't work without a
body or a head tag well what does that
mean
well before explain we're going to hit
shift now this is only going to work in
visual studio code by the way so
hopefully
you're using you're using visual studio
code this is what's called an emmet
abbreviation
uh when you hit exclamation point enter
it's going to create like this big code
snippet and it's going to output a bunch
of
these lines of html and that just
helps you if you want to try to move
quickly
it helps you get all that quick
boilerplate html out of the way because
this is all stuff that's standard that
you see in every html document
um so it's just a real fast way to get
started
and there's a lot of other abbreviations
as they're called that allowed you write
html quicker and i'll show you what
those are as well
i don't want to jump ahead of myself too
much this is a crash course
i but i do want to show you some quick
ways of doing things so
if you're looking at this code right
here and by the way let's go ahead and
hit save
now is our live server working
it is not working so test two
there we go so you may have to refresh
after you've put in the html and the
head and all that stuff
so now every time you uh you actually
save
something or do something and hit save
it automatically shows up here in the
browser so that's live reloading
all right so i'm going to spend a little
bit of time just talking about the
structure of html
and what all this stuff is um
so in general you have a few different
your your html document is structured in
a certain
way and they're all structured in the
same way you have what's called
the doctype right here html
always leave that there you don't ever
edit that or adjust that
we also have what's called the html tag
now notice how
there's a there's some there's two
different types of tags or
a tag is basically or an element is
opened up i
with this little greater than or less
than sign and then greater
greater than sign you have a
closing tag and then a self-closing tag
so a self-closing tag
would be something like this where it
says made a charset
equals utf hyphen 8. if you don't
understand what that is don't worry you
don't even need to really at this point
but notice how there's no closing tag a
closing tag would be where it opens up
but then a little while later you see
the same thing it says title here and
then this one says
title but has a slash in front it in
front of it that's closing the tag but
you have some content inside of it
um right here it would be the opposite
this is a self-closing tag
there's nothing embedded in it it's just
one line and that's it
well when it comes to the html on line
two
which is generally where you see the
html tag
this is a closing tag it's not
self-closing because we see html opened
up here
and then we also see it closed down here
all right so we have all this stuff
in the middle so really we wanted to you
can indent those in
which is gives you a visual cue about
kind of the
hierarchical structure of your html tags
and which are
parents in which our children or
siblings like right here
like these would be child elements of
this parent element
all right so you always have an html tag
you don't ever have to think about that
tag
especially if you hit that emit
abbreviation exclamation point hit enter
all this stuff i generally don't ever
touch unless we're talking about the
title
because the title is what shows up right
here notice how it says document it says
document here if you hover over it in
your browser
well if i type in the 2021
front end developer crash course
it's going to update that up here as
well and so that's what people will see
in their browser title
in their browser window for that given
tab um
another thing we're going to want to add
is a new element right here
and it has to be within the head tag
somewhere okay
so the head tag has several different
meta tags
all right this right here we can just
ignore these meta tags you don't really
ever have to
to adjust them there's also some other
ones you may want to add as well
like the meta description as it's called
and this kind of gives
like browsers like google the just
little description that shows up
underneath the link
which is and the link by the way is it
gets this from the title right here
and there's also made a keywords and
that's good for search engine
optimization and stuff like that
but right now we're not going to add
those tags but you also see the title
tag of course you need to have a title
and then we also if we want to use some
css
and we want to have that css in a
different file
we can type in link and here again is an
abbreviation so we don't have to type
all this stuff manually to enter
and here we go now it says link rel
equals stylesheet and then href equals
blank all right
so it automatically puts the cursor
there for us for that
abbreviation and we're going to
reference the
path i'm going to hit ctrl b to get that
sidebar out the path of our css file
which happens to be css folder forward
slash
main.css we don't want to reference the
sas file
because our sas is only for writing code
we we can only use
dot css right here all right
so i know right now you're probably
still confused a lot about what's
happening but don't worry
another general uh structure of
html are so we talked about the html
elements or the html tags
you also talk about the what are these
things like you can see inside of the
the actual elements
there are these things that equal and
then
you know values those are called
attributes all right so
a lot of different html tags have
attributes that you can use
all right some are specific to that tag
and some you can use you know in in
different areas for instance
if you wanted to create what's called a
hyperlink you know like a little
underlying piece of text
that's sometimes blue that people can
click on or tap or whatever with their
finger
to go to a different page that would
look like this for instance
for instance if i hit a we could see an
href is there as well as
here so it all depends on
which html element you're using and
which tags or
attributes that accompany them and
that would be a great way or area for me
to show you
this right here w3schools.com this
basically is like i think of it as the
bible or the dictionary of html
all right so if we go if you go to this
url right here
and we type in a we'll see the tag right
here
tells you it defines a hyperlink it
shows you what it looks like
and it has a definition and usage it has
tips and notes
and it has all the attributes that we
were just talking about that it can
accept as you can see there's a lot
most of these you're not going to use in
everyday hyperlinks or you know
an everyday a tags right here but it
does tell you and this is an
excellent resource that shows you
examples of it
and how to use it and this is it has it
for you know these are all html elements
look how many there are
again in most projects or a single
project you're not going to use most of
these in fact i've never used whatever
this is
bdi i don't know what that is
just to be honest so when you see all
this stuff
right now you're going through this
crash course don't get
overwhelmed i it is a crash course so it
has that that
that side effect because we're moving
fast um but
just understand a lot of this stuff
you're never going to use and you're not
going to need to use it
and you you'll see that going forward
all right so that w
w 3 schools reference you know in google
of course type in you know if you type
in whatever
you're having problems with those are
going to be invaluable resources
uh going forward okay so um let's go
ahead and get rid of this
now you have your head right here and
generally you're not sitting there
coding inside of your head
uh your head tags uh you're coding and
you're working within
the body right here this is where all of
your
html writing really much pretty much
like 95 percent of it resides
this is where we're going to be putting
all of our
information um notice before when i was
just typing like i was hitting the keys
and i hit
save it showed up right there so this is
the whole
body section another thing i want to
show you
i'm using google chrome firefox is
an acceptable browser as well to use hit
ctrl shift i
on your keyboard and this little thing
is going to show up over here and these
are the
uh the developer tools that we have we
click on elements
you're going to see kind of like a weird
representation of what's happening over
here in a code editor
and we can see we have our html laying
up there then we have our head and we
can
expand this stuff down and look at it
and if we click right here we can see
the body tag all right
so the body tag has this information and
as going forward you see how this will
be a helpful tool
maybe maybe not right now but i wanted
to show you how to access it
at least um and so
as well um just another thing to point
out
i all of our css that we're going to be
writing will be able to access right
here as well and there's some cool
things that we can do that we'll get to
all right i know we haven't done much
talking but
that's all of the overview that i'm
going to do
in terms of just describing stuff that's
here right now
let's actually get into the process of
writing html
and like i said pretty much all happens
within this body
section here so when you're when you're
uh
working on a project hopefully and more
often than not
you're going to have a mock-up or a
prototype of some sort
that will help guide your decisions when
you're writing your html
and your css and so adobe xd
right here this is a ui design ui ux
prototyping design tool
if you didn't catch in the beginning i
have the whole tutorial
about how exactly i designed this right
here
here's the mobile version although
that's offset that should be
in the center there we go and then here
over here is the desktop version
so these two things will help guide me
when it comes to the css and the html
portion
now we're going to start i'm going to
move this off here we're going to start
by default working on the
mobile version of the site when it comes
to the css
when you when it comes to writing your
html it doesn't really matter that much
i which one you look at because it's all
pretty much going to be the same
although i would probably
let me back that up i would advocate
when you're writing your html which is
the first step the css comes after that
i look at the full desktop version
because usually the desktop version will
contain
everything that you need i in terms of
your elements
that you need to account for in the html
process
so having said that let's take a look at
this right here so when you're writing
your html you work from
top down all right so the top of this
this layout and by the way the layout's
pretty long
the first thing we see and the first
thing that's usual you know the typical
thing you see
is the navbar section or the header you
usually have a logo you have a
navigation menu of some sort
so that's what we have so when it comes
to writing your html you have to think
about
you have to think about things in terms
of blocks
like for instance the very first thing
that we see in the upper left corner is
we have this white big
sort of bar that goes up there right
correct so we have to create an html
element and that will allow us to define
that when we get to the css portion
so i how do we do that you know
what tag would we use remember all those
tags we saw
well there's something called semantic
html and we're going to get to that in a
second
but for now we're just going to use a
div
tag now a div tag is something you're
going to use a ton
unlike some of those other ones i a div
tag basically
allows you to structure physically
structure your layout
um and so the way we do that and i'll
just write it by hand without using
emmett
here and for this first demonstration
we open it up div that's the html
element name
and then we type in a class
now that's another entirely new concept
if you're brand new to html
class equals and of course class is an
attribute so class 8 goals and we're
going to give it some sort of name
that's relevant based on what's
happening
i'm going to call it nav bar all right
now when we close it automatically the
code editor will add a closing tag
because this is not a self-closing tag
we're going to hit enter
and then we're going to put some stuff
inside of it so what is a class
all right so what is the class element
basically
i i should be getting the w3 schools
representation of it
but basically in a nutshell it just
allows
us to take this name right here and when
we get to the css portion we'll be able
to reference
this name right here as a selector as
it's called
so to put in even simpler terms
we're giving this html element a name so
that we can in the future when you get
to the css
we can style it with the css okay so
when we hit save nothing happens because
a a div element nothing renders in the
browser if there's nothing inside of it
for it to show so you can see
class navbar and it's up there it's just
hidden there's nothing in it
all right so let's go back here
all right so now we have a block that
will allow us to structure
that little white bar up top right
so what comes next here well
you would say the logo and you would be
right but
they were going to put another block
inside of that block because we're going
to have
and you don't have to do this by the way
we're going to have a block right here
inside of this overall block because
once when the browser gets
large enough we want to kind of be able
to we want to have a way to keep that
nav bar confined to the center and
you'll see what i mean more specifically
going forward about that so we're going
to put another one
in this time instead of writing div
class
we're just going to put in period a
period
is short for a class so this is an emmet
abbreviation
so we're going to put period container
hit enter
look at that it wrote all that stuff for
us so that we don't have to do it
so inside of there so now we have
one element that's nested inside of
another element and then we're gonna
have another element nested side in this
one
there's once we get in here then we can
put that logo
the logo's right here all right all
right so this is just
a a what's called a word mark style logo
which is in the field of identity design
like designing logos it's called a word
mark because there's no symbol
and it's just achievable through text so
normally
you might have a graphic file that
you'll have to
put into your html code through an image
tag or perhaps a different one but this
one we can achieve just through html
alone because it's just text right so
what we're going to do is we're going to
make it we want it clickable because
usually
on a logo on a website i it's a standard
pattern for people to
take their mouse or their fingers if
they're on mobile or tablet
and click on the logo in order to get to
the home page so
that means there's an action that's
usually put on
to a logo and in that case we're going
to use an
a hyperlink or an a tag so we hit a
and then we see href so that's like i
i showed you earlier this mean this is
where you can put in
like uh another page like we can put in
index.html
because that'll bring you to the home
page that's pretty much what you would
want to do anyway
you can also put in other website
addresses like http
slash yahoo.com i don't know why yahoo
came
first to me but we can also see this is
a closing tag
and there's something in the center we
can put which is what's called the
anchor text again if all this stuff is
confusing
just go to w3schools and search for the
a tag and you can see
all the stuff that you know that you can
do with it
so go to yahoo this is the anchor text
hit save look how it showed up it's real
tiny if i hit my control my mouse scroll
wheel i can kind of zoom up here in the
in the browser so you can see it
if we go here guess what we're going to
yahoo.com
okay so we don't have we don't need this
to go anywhere
so we can either just put an index.html
or
a hash sign right here which means it's
not going to go anywhere so now we click
on
nothing's going to happen all right so
inside of here
we're going to put the i think it's
called remember that right
am i am i right or am i wrong yes so we
hit save
it says remember that now notice it
looks nothing like
this right here and that's because we
haven't got to the css portion
now notice how it says remember that but
remember that
is that that part is blue right
so if we want to make that part blue we
have to wrap this in
another special tag so that we can
reference that in css
and the tag for something like that
that's pretty generic just for doing
something like that it's called a span
tag so
span we we we open that up
what am i doing i'm messing my uh i have
sausage fingers over here
we're gonna take span and then just put
that in there now if we hit save nothing
changes it
but in css we will be able to colorize
that to that special blue color
all right so now we have that what is
next
in our design and we're looking
top down left to right next up is this
little section it's a little menu
and we have two of them as you can see
so in order to create
a navigation this is where we use
one of those semantic tags all right so
if i basically semantic means you should
use the appropriate tag
based on what is occurring you know
contextually
in that area of your html
because you could completely style this
stuff using div tags
but it makes more sense to use these
special tags
in areas that make sense so for instance
nav we type
nav and hit enter we're going to open
this whole
area up and define this area as an
important navigation on our website
so inside of here we're going to have
our two different
where is it at are two different
navigations we have one that's kind of
center over here this is like the
important stuff and then we have a
contact and then we have
what's called a call to action here
we're going to style those using two
different
navigations and when it comes to html
there's different types of navigations
there's an unordered list and there's an
ordered list that we can use
we're going to use an unordered list an
ordered list would put
little numbers next to each item we
don't need numbers next to our
navigation items
so we're going to use unordered list
short is ul
again if you want to learn more go to
w3schools type in ul you'll see how you
know through the examples and all that
stuff and how it all works
in an unordered list you open up the ul
tags
and inside of them we put each of our
list items
this is a list item that's a list item
that's a list item
this right here is a if i take uh
this right here you'll see this is our
unordered list right here which contains
all three of those
we're gonna have another unordered list
over here with two list items over there
so our list item is defined by typing
ally
and then because we want ours to be
clickable these are going to be links
that take people to different areas of
the site that's a navigation
we put in an a tag as well
inside of there and we're not going to
have it go anywhere so we're just going
to use that hash
sign and then we're going to put in the
anchor text right here
home all right so if we save this
we can now see this little bullet point
and it says home
now real quick in visual studio code you
can replicate lines of code
by holding shift alt down arrow key
and we'll do that twice so there's a lot
of ways to really save yourself time
when you're writing html when working
within visual studio code
the next one is going to be features and
then this one is going to be called
pricing
so now if we save we'll see all three
show up of course they're butt ugly
so don't worry when we get to the css
portion we're going to make that all
look better
all right now we also need a way if we
come back over here
to our document notice how this one's
bold
these ones aren't well this one's bold
because this is the homepage we're
designing and it's a visual indicator
telling
people that this is the page that you're
currently at well we
have to have a way to um communicate
that
to the css in order to make it bold so
we'll add a class
just like we did before and we'll just
call this current as in the current page
nothing changes here though because this
is all just for css purpose
in css when we get to this portion we'll
be able to reference this current class
and then make this right here
bold okay so next up we're going to copy
all the five of those lines
with ctrl c and then hit ctrl v on your
keyboard to paste underneath it
now this is an area where we also want
to add i forgot to add a class on this
unordered list
so this is going to be class primary
hyphen nav
and then this one as well would be class
we'll call this one secondary
nav and the reason i'm adding a class
onto each one of these is because we
need a way to differentiate between the
two of these
and adding a class is one such way to do
that
so now we've basically given this its
own
label called primary nav and then
secondary nav and the reason we need to
be able to differentiate between two of
those is because
this one's stuck over here and then this
one's going to be right aligned over
here
and we again we do that through i css
so let's go ahead and modify the stuff
in here because it's changed so
this one right here has to be contact
and we don't need this class
of current because that one won't ever
be bold and then we also have
go premium which is that call to action
we'll go ahead and get rid of this third
one and then we're gonna
we're going to give this one a class
because it's a really specially designed
button so we're going to call it go
premium hyphen cta
and we'll hit save because that that
design
it's this button right here so we have a
lot of css work
to make it go from this you know blank
boring link
to this link all right
there's a couple other things that we
also need to account for
in our html when it concerns this
navigation
when it's on a mobile view
or a tablet or whatever you have what's
called a hamburger menu
notice we don't see these links anymore
why because we don't have the physical
space
the horizontal space to put them all it
would be cluttered
that's why you have this little menu and
so when you tap on it
it it presents that navigation in a
different way
um so we need to account for this
element
all right so that means this is a
graphic file
that you can once selected
go to export export selected we want to
choose
svg for this case svg is
a scalable vector graphic it's a
typographic where
it never loses quality if you take a
real small
like jpg image or a photograph and then
you try to scale it up real large
you'll see pixelation it'll look blurry
and you know whatever
um that's not what we want for this
element because it was created within a
design application
um and so then we can export this into a
folder
where we're going to be able to access
and reference from both our html and our
css
so if i hit change here i'm going to go
back to my code folders
we're going to go into one we're working
in we're going to create a new file
or a new folder rather called you could
call assets or images i'm going to call
this one images
and hit select folder and then export
now we go back to our code editor hit
ctrl b
we'll see we have this images folder
that we just created
with this name right here if i right
click and rename that
we're just going to name that here to
menu.svg all right
now svg is actually a code-based
uh graphics format right here
so that's something to get into the
future but
adobe experience design which is that
app that i keep switching back to
that he used to design the user
interface i it will
it will automatically create this code
for you based on
the graphics that you create in that app
adobe illustrator and other
vector applications work the same way at
least the ones that allow you to export
svg files
okay so we need to put in
an html element that accounts for
showing that just on mobile that little
hamburger menu
and we're going to put it right here
just outside of the navigation
i tag and so this is an image so we use
an
image tag like that img
hit enter and the source is you know
wherever that
image resides in your project folder
structure
so in our case it's inside of an images
folder
forward slash then we put the name
menu.svg
now when it comes to images you should
always use the alt
attribute or specify it rather and
basically it's just a short description
of what this thing is and this is
good for accessibility meaning people
who
have screen readers who have like vision
issues or impairment issues
they'll be able to actually navigate
around it will tell them what this is
because clearly they can't see this
graphic correct
correct all right so this we're just
going to put in
open navigation all right
okay so now we also want to add a class
on to this one i and we're going to call
this mobile hyphen menu
and then we're going to save it
additionally we have
another one another element
or an attribute that you haven't used
yet and it's called the id
id equals we're gonna call this one
mobile hyphen cta
now the id class is useful when you get
to
javascript now we've talked about html a
little bit we really haven't talked
about
css but you have another one that and
when all three of these things work
together
you call javascript um because
let me describe what's happening so
because i
was when somebody on mobile needs to
click on this in order to access the
menu
we have to have some sort of intelligent
coding
that tells the css
or tells the browser rather i to apply a
css class to attach a class
that will toggle and show our navigation
or these menu items
right here in order to do that you can't
do that
strictly with just html so we're going
to use something called javascript to do
that
and the way we reference it or we find
it or one of the ways
at least is by giving it an id
and an id is i one of those elements
or is attributes that cannot be used
more than once on in your document so
this mobile hyphen cta
should not ever be used on another
element that has the same thing
when it comes to classes you can
actually apply the same class
for instance i like mobile menu we could
put this right here
so the class attribute accepts multiple
class names
uh and we'll get into that as well
so so we have uh that element done
we also are going to need another
element that we're going to put
right here just above the first primary
nav
and that's going to be a little x icon
because
when that no mobile navigation opens up
it's going to have a little exit sign
for
people to close that navigation and so
if i come back over here you'll see i
had this little x right here it's
actually hard to see because it's white
but
the navigation that we come out i didn't
design for it in this application so you
don't see it
it's going to be this little nav drawer
that comes out like this and overlays on
top of the screen and it's going to be
like this dark blue
and then this will be like right around
here um at this point i'm not going to
bother
exporting any further graphics because i
already did that i'm simply going to
export though or i'm going to import
those all into the existing images
folder
now i will have um the zip file that you
can download that has all this stuff
ready for you
as well all right so now you can see all
the images
um that we're going to be using in order
to pull off this project
right here all right so next up like i
mentioned we have to put in
that reference um again it's exit.svg
and again that's going to be another
image tag all right
so for that we're going to have
an image the source is going to be
images
forward slash x dot svg it's also going
to have an id
in class as well so let me hit ctrl b to
get rid of that sidebar
we're going to paste that in here
so again they can't have the same id
that's for certain so this is going to
be mobile hyphen exit
because it's an exit button and that's
what i'm choosing to name it
our class is going to be mobile menu
exit
all right and then our alt we'll just
put close
navigation
great all right and that is all that is
it that's everything that we need
for our navigation so you can see we
have it looks like a complete mess
and it is at this point it's supposed to
look like a complete mess
uh because we haven't applied any css
but this is what raw html looks like
it's horrible all right so next
up notice all these closing div tags
that we've ended up with well that's
what happens very quickly when you're
writing html
so next up we're going to come outside
of all these closing tags notice all
these these lines that point
to each other well this is just a visual
indicator showing you where
this opening tags closing tag is
associated
so we can see this one right here
is the closing tag for our navbar
and that basically contains all this
stuff
all right we're going to come outside of
that now and the reason we're doing that
is because we can see if we go back over
here
everything over here was self-contained
into this section
so now we have this big section right
here
and we have two columns like one right
here and then another one right here so
that's
that's a block and then that's a block
and each of them have stuff inside of
them right
so let's get to that so when it comes to
i certain parts of your design it makes
sense to use
another tag that is mandate called
section so this is just a section of
content
all right we're also going to give this
because we're going to have multiple
sections
a class so that we can reference it
specifically called hero
this is this area over here in ui design
is typically
typically called the hero section it's
what's i'm just underneath the
navigation traditionally
and it's what usually i will be the
first thing
um that a person will see because it
usually has
big text like a big headline a sub
headline a call to action button of some
sort
an illustration a photograph or whatever
so it's a really important part of your
design
um inside of here again we're gonna have
another one of those annoying uh
container tags because
we need a way to have a block uh
that goes right here um
and it's the same one the container tag
it's a div element
you'll see how it works but we have to
add that first before we can then add
these
inside of it so we're going to put our
container
and then inside of here we're going to
create that first block for the left
column so i'm just going to call this
hyphen left call
for column and then we're going to put
in that sub headline
all right so we're going to use a
paragraph for that a paragraph tag
all right and it's also going to have a
class inside of it called
sub head and that way it means
subheading that way we can
reference it and style it with css it's
knitty
and and whenever you want to put an
ampersand sign you can't just put
the ampersand you have to put ampersand
amp and
semicolon i know it's very weird it's
strange but that's just how it renders
it so when we hit save we can see it
shows up there
and it just sews the ampersand notice
how it's also styled very differently
and it's
it's title case and not all uppercase we
can make it all uppercase when we get to
the css portion and make it gray and all
that
next up is the headline and we use that
through what's called an h1 tag or a
heading tag so
there's six heading tags and the most
important ones are the lowest numbers so
the most important
headline tag is the h1 and that's where
usually you put
inside of the hero section you know the
big
the big old uh headline that you want a
task app that doesn't
stink save that
all right we can see notice how it's
naturally bigger the browser knows
and we can style that you know make it
our own size however we wish
inside of here we're also going to have
a
a class of hero
hyphen cta all right
and we're inside of here and the reason
i'm putting
that class here or that div is because
right here
we have two elements side by side this
button
and then this button so we're gonna have
a parent element that will allow us
to create that sort of two column layout
then inside of there we have the big
call to action we're going to use an a
with a class so if i put a period
class or or not class but the class name
like primary cta for call-to-action
then it creates all this html for me so
that's an emmet abbreviation thing
and it's not going to go anywhere uh
this particular link
all right so we're just going to give it
the hash sign
and then our class name or the anchor
text rather is going to be try for free
so now we can see it if we save it we're
going to hit shift alt down on the arrow
in the keyboard just to replicate that
line and
this one class is going to be watch
video
cta and this time we're going to open it
up
because we're going to have a line here
with an
image element because the image is going
to be
for this element right here
hopefully that makes sense all right
so the image location for that uh is
of course it's in images forward slash
watch.svg
the alt is going to be the text you know
this is watch
a video and then watch a video for the
actual anchor text right here
so right there looks really ugly but
don't worry like i said
many times so far we'll make it better
in css
so that's all the uh that's not all the
html yet we still
have uh let's see here our
illustration this big thing over here
this is an svg graphic itself which is
in the images folder
so we have left call by by the way
notice these little
vertical lines that's kind of there to
let you know where the closing tag
of these elements are so this closing
tag is right there
all right so um just outside of that
left column we're going to put an image
tag
all right and the source is going to be
images illustration.svg
we need to reference it and style it
with css
later on so we're going to call this
hero hyphen image and then our
alt is going to be just like
illustration or something like that
now we're done all this section content
right here
is responsible for
all this right here next up
we have our another section so we're
going to use the section tag again
to define the beginning of this right
here
so let's do that
section it's going to have its own class
of
features section
we're going to have that same container
class inside of it
then we're going to have an unordered
list which is responsible
for all this right here this is an
unordered list notice there's little um
check mark
graphics next to them we don't have to
use i
we don't have to use to create markup
for that in html in order to show those
we can do that in css
and i'll show you that later so list
item
and here's a tip if you have like a
bunch of these list items
just hit shift alt down after you do the
first one leave it empty
hit your down arrow key for as many
times as you need it and then you can
just start specifying all the type
on my reference mod i already have this
code typed out so it's right here
and if you want to paste those two you
can go to the code pen link in the
youtube description and just grab the
code from there
and then also finally we do have
an image a photograph of a person
holding a phone and i'll show you that
in a second so holding
phone.jpg the alt is going to be man
holding phone
and that's all we need for now notice
how large this is don't worry we'll fix
that
um when the time comes so you may be
wondering
how are we going to define like this
little block right here in this little
graphic
we're going to do that solely through
css and i'll show you how
when we get to the css section next
section is this little testimonial
section right there
so again that's going to be another
section
and the class is testimonials
hyphen section
all right and inside of here again we're
going to do the container
you'll see how important the container
is later even if you're confused as to
why we're adding it unordered list
again those three cards
we can create and define as unordered
list item this is list item this is the
list item and so is that
so we're going to have uh list item open
that up
we're gonna have the first there's three
different things inside of each one
there's a
a person and then there's the quote and
then there's their name
so the person image source is images
person.jpg
that's one of the files that we have alt
it's just i'm just going to say person
you can probably put their name if you
knew it
block quote is a a tag that makes sense
if you're you have a quote of some sort
so for this one i'm just going to put in
and paste
off the side of my screen some lorem
ipsum filler text
which is just latin it's just some an
industry standard for front-end
developers and ui designers
to use if they don't have the copy the
real copy yet the ad copy
and then we're going to have a another
tag you haven't used site
and we're just going to put jane doe and
that's
basically who said the quote now we're
going to take all those five lines copy
them ctrl c
come down underneath it ctrl v and then
hit enter control v
now we have three of them
and the images are really huge and we'll
fix that with css don't worry
and then finally we have one more
section and that is our contact section
which resides down here
there's two columns we have some form
elements we have labels
a form element a label form element and
then a submit button
and then we have a in this column a
google maps view
and we'll get that embedded as well and
then we'll be finished with
the html process so
section with a class
of contact section
and then our container this is the one
we're adding all the time
contact left so we don't have
when it comes to the div tag and
abbreviations you don't have to put div
and then like contact all right wait
yeah contact left
because div tag is used so much you can
just put in period
contact left
hit enter and it knows it'll be a div so
that's just a quick tip
all right so we have our title of
contact we're going to use an h2 element
not
uh an h1 this time because it's like a
heading
um we're gonna have a form right here
now when it comes to the form
tag you don't have to really use it it
depends on the technology that's used to
communicate the data that's inputted
into the form
but we're just going to leave it there
and use it anyways
it has no styling associated with it so
you can't see it in the browser so now
next up is the name
and we're going to use a label element
and notice this a 4 attribute
so we're going to put name because this
is the name
you can name it whatever you want by the
way and we have to put name right there
so we'll see right there we have contact
and it says name right there
i'll describe what the four is in a
second
we're going to put an input type as text
because it's a text field that somebody
types into
we're also going to give it an id of
name and a class of
or a name of name rather name is an
attribute that you would use to
communicate whatever is inputted with a
server but
that's not our job so anyways um
for name id name so if whatever four is
bound to has to be bound to the id
of whichever element you want this label
to be associated with
so the reason we do that is because we
click right here
on the the name element it will
automatically highlight
and allow you to type into this text
field right here
um if you change this to like name two
guess what it doesn't happen so
those two need to be bound to each other
with using the same value
outside of that we're also going to put
the second one we only have two i should
have put in an email
because usually you have your name your
email that a way for them to contact you
but you know i forgot anyways you would
just cut
you know copy this and up update those
values of social you know
accordingly let me show you just real
quick how you would do that if you
wanted to
you just copy those two paste them email
you would change this to email
change that to email and change that to
email all right so now we have an email
oh and by the way
there's a type of email an email field
and when you do that and if you enter in
like a wrong email
uh type uh it will provide
form value validation like saying that
you didn't structure your email address
correctly like you didn't use an at
siren or something
but anyhow because i didn't include it
in my design i'm not going to include it
here
um we do have the final element which is
a text area
because it's a big type of text field
it's unlike this one
because it has multiple multi multi
lines and such
so we still use a label for is going to
be message
name is message and then we type in text
area
the name is going to be message id will
be messaged because it has to be bound
to the four
value and that's it you can also
actually type
stuff between the tags of text area and
it'll show up right in the middle but i
don't want that to happen
right there there's also something
called the placeholder value
so if we on our input field if we type
placeholder
your name you'll see it shows like this
little dimmed out your name thing and
then once you click in it
and start typing it goes away for this
context
this use case you don't need that
because name is obvious it's like it's
obvious how to enter that information
all right so you can do the same thing
by the way with the text area you can
put a placeholder value there
finally we need our button send message
all right so to do that we don't use a a
link you could
depending on the technology it's used to
communicate the information
but we can put input type is going to be
submit
all right and then we put class because
we're gonna need to style this
send message not second what am i
thinking
send message cta value equals send
message why do i type in second i keep
on typing second instead of send i don't
know
second send message rather save
and there it is there's a send message
but nothing happens
except it just kind of submits to itself
um but yeah that is
it and then finally we have
the the uh the map so for our map
i'm gonna put the map let's see right
here
right after this contact left
right here and we're gonna have a
contact right
and we're going to embed a google map in
there so if i get up a new
browser go to maps.google
we're gonna go to bev beverly hills
the old school showed that's how old i
am although i never watched it i'll be
honest
maybe i watched it a few times okay no
i'm a die-hard fan i watch it every
night
um we're going to we're going to click
on
share and then embed a map and then copy
this or copy html right there
once we're done with that we can paste
it right there and then guess what we
save it
and uh it works automatically
isn't that cool so it's an iframe which
means it allows you to embed
a web page another web page into your
webpage it's very crazy
um and then now that's it that is all of
our html believe it or not i
i it's actually a lot um but now
we're going to make all this good
looking
during the css whoa that guy's like
right in my face during the css
portion all right so now it's time for
the css but i'm looking over here
in our xd document
so when it comes to writing css
um the the way that
pretty much all css pros do is through
what's called mobile first css
this means that all the css rewrite we
want to make sure it looks good
on a mobile design or a mobile form at
first so that's why we're going to be
looking at the mobile design for this
the reason you do mobile first and not
desktop first
is because mobile first is generally
more simple
i designed for mobile first is you know
it doesn't include as much like look at
this section here
we don't have the photograph we don't
have this stuff this stuff
so our css will tend to be smaller in
size
um and then we use what's called media
queries which we'll get we'll get into
and i will explain
and those media queries will allow us
based on certain widths
or viewport widths to define all this
extra special stuff
all right so let's go ahead and get
started
making this ugly thing over here
look like this it's magic almost no it's
not magic
okay so let's get ctrl b we're going to
click on our sas file here
and we're going to ctrl b again to close
that out
and notice this little icon up here we
can split this editor
this means that
on left we can see our cs or
our html if we want to and then on the
right we can have our css now
normally i would do that um some people
actually have small
has multiple monitors and they'll do you
know ones there on one monitor
and the other ones on the other monitor
but this is a way to do it within a
single monitor
because when you're writing css you're
kind of always referring back to your
html markup because that kind of guides
your decisions over here in terms of
your what are called selectors
um i'm not going to do that though
because i have everything enlarged up
and it's just i don't have a lot of
space to work with so i will manually
i will be manually clicking back and
forth
up top going back and forth like that
all right so when it comes to your css
the first
element that you can style and you don't
have to like style it at the first time
or
i'll show you what i mean is the body
tag
um so the body tag is where you define
like the background of the website
so if it doesn't body we can give it a
background color
and there is a specific background color
that i'm using that isn't white by
default it's white
in html in the browser as you can see
but this is kind of like a gray a very
light gray
so i'm going to click over here copy
this hex color code
all right that's called a hex value and
we're going to
say background and then
colon and then paste that in and then
hit
a semicolon and hit save now you can see
it's that
that color we could in visual studio
code if you hover over that value then
we
gives us this color picker and so notice
the hex value all those crazy numbers is
how
i we're able to communicate the color to
the browser
so if we say this is red guess what hit
save
it changes it to red and makes it look
really ugly um
so let's go back ctrl z
there we go it's f2 f2 f2 and so this is
what
a css rule set looks like here's what it
consists of let me hit control plus here
to make this bigger
a few times it is i first we have what's
called a selector
the selector can be a variety of things
it can but primarily it can be three two
different things
i it can be the name of the html element
itself like body
div a img nav
or it can also be like a class all right
so class equals navibar
container so that's just called a
selector you can also have multiple
selectors like
separated by comma like body and
then maybe something like nav and the
reason you might have
multiple selectors is because they might
be styled with the same exact properties
okay
so now inside of this we open this up
in order to specify our css property so
we have this little squiggly brace right
here
or bracket and then it closes right here
at the end
you're always going to have that sort of
situation when you're working with css
or sas
then we have the actual property name
background is a css property name
then after the property name you put a
semicolon right here to denote that
that's the end of the name and then you
also denote that this is the beginning
of the associated value
so in the case of background we have a
hex value right here
all right and then you end it
with a semicolon and if you want to have
multiple properties which we will
in this case we put in
and a second line the same format
property
value this will be margin and then as a
colon
and then the property we're going to put
0 and then we
end the statement with the semicolon
just like we did up there
margin zero by default browsers add a
little bit of margin
it's called margin it's white space on
the edge
i'm just gonna i always just remove that
and i add my own i just kind of reset it
to zero in the body tag and hit save
so now notice how it kind of just fell
back up there
then we're going to have another one we
can put font family
all right i'm going to use something
called poppins
now when i save that you can see that
the font changed from like that times
new roman
serif font to this and the reason it
worked is because i already have poppins
installed on my
machine now not everybody has the same
font
especially if you're using you know a
different font as you
so i had to download and install that
for that use case
we're going to go to fonts.google.com
and poppins is a font that is available
here at google.com
so if i type in pop-ins here it is we
can select a style so like
like how many weights do we want to have
like there's
a lot of different bold you know
variations of this font
one thing to note the more variations
that you have
the longer it will take the load because
the browser has to or your phone or
whatever has to download this
information
so i can we can just we can stick with
like a regular
and we can also click on a bold like
bold 700 right here
so now we click on import and then we
copy this
right there not sure if you can see that
but it's just three lines starting at at
import
then we paste it up there
i'm hitting ctrl minus on my keyboard to
get us back down to scale
and then we can exit out now this way
if you don't have it on installed on
your machine you don't need to because
guess what your browser will download it
based on
this information right there all right
so next up we're going to start
writing out um our
core css our yeah css and
we have to ask it you have to ask
yourself in the same way
like when we started writing html we
started to look at
you know the top of our our design
document
to guide our decisions for html we're
going to do the same thing with css
we're going to look over here to see
what's happening first
and we're going to style those
accordingly now it doesn't really matter
the order of your css rule sets it
doesn't matter at
all but it does kind of make sense for
organizational purposes to have all your
rule sets kind of
cascade the way that it's occurring here
so we have our navbar class
in or a div element and that's in
relation to this big white container
right here
so we're going to reference our class of
navbar
like this period navbar
so that basically means the period means
it's a class
and navbar is the name so any
properties that we open up here when we
specify they're going to be specific
to this element or any other element
that has class of navbar
okay so looking at our
our code up here we need to get this
right here
this whole section right here looking
like
this because we're doing mobile first
just the logo
and just this little hamburger menu all
right
so for navbar the first thing we're
going to set is the background
the background is going to be white
so you can enter in multiple different
types of
there's different ways in order to
specify color in css
you can do hex values you can do what's
rgb
rgba hsl there's a lot of different ways
i don't want to
you know i confuse you too much but you
can also write out
common color names as well so now you
can see it's just this white color
and you can see the difference between
the shades here so background white
and we're going to also have
padding so padding is another css value
by the way
i if we type in css and google
we'll see w3 schools there's a whole css
section
on w3schools as well um tremendously
popular site
it's 186 largest website in the world so
it's it's a very you know popular site
and again
when it comes to all the css properties
of which there are
many you can go here and refer to see
exactly how they're used
okay so same thing with html
so we're going to have padding all right
so what padding is padding is very
similar to margin
so margin affects everything outside of
that element so
when you add margin like in certain
values like for instance if i change
this
to like um 5 m units
look how wow it looks like it broke
something here
there we go look how much by margin it
added there
or if we change this to two we have a
little bit less
so it affects everything outside
now if we did a padding
padding is the opposite of margin
because padding affects everything
that's on the
inside of an element so let me
demonstrate this let's put this back to
zero and don't worry i'll describe what
that m thing
unit is in in a little bit but we're
going to put
here a padding of 1m unit
notice how it pushed everything away so
padding works on the inside
whereas margin works on the outside let
me bring up the developer tools control
shift i
and we're going to click this little
button where it says select an element
when you hover over it
notice when we hover over it it's
showing us all this stuff
so when we hover over the
um the nav bar element right here and it
shows you right here it does like a
little thing that says div dot nav bar
underneath where i'm hovering
it's like right by my mouse right now um
it shows you this green
outline right here that is the padding
value
and it's on the inside so
notice if we hover over here like it's
nitty and gritty
we have these i borders on the top that
are orange
and bot and bottom that are orange
that's margin
and that's default margin that the b
that the browser has added onto this
element so notice on it's on the outside
of the element but this padding is on
the inside so that's important to
understand that you're going to be using
that value
those properties of padding and margin
big time so that's why i'm spending a
little bit of time talking about it
so we have that set to 1m unit by the
way my browser is
brow is is all the way up to um 175 it
should be this size right here
and so that gives us a little bit of
that mark that padding that white space
because you re when it comes to ui
design you don't want things slapped up
against
edges and stuff like that this looks bad
so that's why we add
padding right there all right
so now another thing we need to do
is to style up this logo
this looks nothing like
this so let's make it look like that
now remember when i was talking about
sass and it has some super powers that
you can use
that you don't you know that regular css
can't do
well regular css can't nest
rule sets inside of each other and but
that's what sas allows us to do
so let me show you how you do that you
just put logo
and this works because nav logo is a
a child element of navbar
so if you look in our html you'll see
that we have our nav bar and then we
have
our logo and by the way we i forgot to
add the class
class equals logo that way we can
reference it
so we because that exists in there
we can put that rule set right there so
the first property value that we're
going to use is text decoration
we're going to say none this will get
rid of the underline
when we save it see it just got rid of
it let me make this a little bit larger
though just so we can all see what's
happening
next up font weight is going to be bold
so you use the font hyphen weight
property to
specify whether or not something's bold
you can put in a numeric value
like 700 remember we imported the weight
of 400
and 700 right here so we can do the same
thing that way we're just going to make
this bold
we're also going to put in color black
so whenever you have
um text color color is the property you
use to change the color of that text
all right and again we can hover over
this and make it red
and notice visual studio code uses rgb
value when you
use their little selector to choose
colors
let's back up there though we're going
to make that black and then we're going
to make it a little bit larger font size
1.2 em units
so remember i talked about m units and i
would describe what that is
so this is a unit right here
em there are different types of units
that you can specify
on certain css property values
there are absolute values and then there
are relative values
so this is a relative value and it's it
is pronounced as
m right here and this would be a great
use case for showing you if i type in
if you're confused about you know what a
unit is or property is just go to google
type in css and then whatever it is
and then we can see in this section css
units
so it has a whole section on what are
called units
all right so notice it's talking about i
the px which is for a pixel which is
absolute right here
it's going to show you all the absolute
types of units that you can put in you
can put
cm mm blah blah blah
i you can use relative as well notice m
is right here
it's relative to the font side of the
element
font size rather you can use ex there's
a lot of other ones that you can use but
i don't want to you know bore you too
much with that but these are all things
that you can research
even further like if you want to know
more about m you know just type cm
css m unit and you're going to get a lot
of different values that
will help you give a better
understanding of how all this stuff
works
so the larger the value number here
like four the bigger this becomes all
right
so next up remember how we had that span
element because we need to make this
blue we can put span and have another
nested rule set
and put color and then put the color of
that blue color it's not blue
it's actually a different shade and
if i double click in here we'll get that
color code right there
and paste it in and there we go
now i'm going to introduce you to
something that's very cool about css
this color shows up multiple times
throughout our document
it's a part of our what's called the
color scheme and
this color is here
it's here it's in multiple areas what if
for instance
you guys decide you know whoever you
work with on your team
that you want to change the primary
color of your color scheme maybe you're
rebranding
well if you put it in here and it's
showing up in all these different areas
throughout your css
well you're going to have to replace
those all manually well we can use
what's called a
custom property in css and it's not
just for sas it used to be sas used to
have variables
and it still does and you can still use
them but
css natively in the browser didn't have
anything like that
but it does now and it has for a couple
years and they're called custom
properties
here's how you do it so any type of um
property value
and prop yeah any type of property value
that's reused often
throughout your document you can define
up here
inside a colon root and then you can
specify
these css properties so the property
name is first denoted by having two
hyphens or two dashes
and then the name of it we're going to
call this primary hyphen color
and then we put in the value all right
so then
the way we specify this we put var for
variable
we open up prep in parentheses sorry i'm
talking so much i'm not very fluent
right now
and then we put dash dash and we
reference the name of the variable that
we want to use or the property
and then we hit save notice we hit save
it still works
so now if we ever want to change this
value we only have to change it in one
area of the document up here
rather than having to do it in a bunch
of different areas if we have it hard
coded in in certain areas
hopefully that makes sense all right so
now we have this area up here
looking pretty good um we have an issue
where this is a little bit too close it
has to be
right aligned to the container we also
have to get rid of this
we're going to hide that by default so
to do that we're going to hide that
we're going to look at here
and notice all of our stuff our
navigations are
included and nested inside of this nav
tag
so we're going to come out outside of
this nav bar
and just put nav and we're going to put
display
none that hides it look at that so we're
getting
somewhere exciting stuff
so now we're going to take our container
now notice we have uh our navbar then we
have our container
and we're going to reference this
container in order to
separate this logo from this graphic
right here this little hamburger menu
needs to be over here
so what i'm going to do is say container
display flex
now notice this says none this says flex
um flexbox it's flex is short for
flexbox and it's a certain way to
structure
layouts there's also the grid there's
also
a couple other property values for
display that you can use based on your
needs
so we're going to put display flex and
then place content
space hyphen between when we do that
it moves us over so
if you want to learn more about flexbox
their entire courses
on learning css flexbox and tutorials of
course
um so i'm not going to get into that
because it would just make this
extremely long this is a crash course so
we have to move along
um so now that we have those separated
um
notice when we hover over with our mouse
button usually you wouldn't
use this like most people who are on a
desktop wouldn't have their
screen like this but some might and it's
nice to have a little
visual indicator that you're hovering
over it where your cursor pointer
changes to a little hand icon so what we
can do
is we can say oh and by the way
i messed up these two elements should be
nested
inside the navbar element there we go so
now we're going to save
okay that makes more sense now so now
what we're going to do is
we're going to say mobile menu
and we're going to put cursor pointer
mobile menu is in relation to
this class right here that's the menu
graphic
and that's responsible for this person
right there or that guy or that
thing that graphic so if we save guess
what
it changes to a hand all right now let's
we basically for mobile have this part
done
for now next up look how ugly this stuff
is
that right here looks nothing like
here let me get this situated so that we
can see both side by side
it looks nothing like this right this
and this
so we got to get that looking much
better all right
so now let's come back to our
sas here
we're going to style all of our links
a certain way a certain color rather
so if i if i for instance where it says
watch
a video right here
this isn't black it's actually
kind of like a dark gray so if i wanted
to change all the hyperlinks
which by default are either blue or this
visited color that's like this purple
we're going to go ahead and just
reference all a elements
so we're not going to use a class and
we're going to do color
and then change it so notice how they
all change any link that shows up
anywhere else is going to be
that color now if i only wanted to
change the color of a specific
link i would use a class instead as a
selector hopefully that makes sense
all right next up um we're going to do
let's see here we're going to do some
other general cleanup work
it doesn't necessarily follow the flow
of what's happening sequentially here
but i like to include some of this stuff
like near the top of the document
um so we're going to reference all
unordered lists remember we used quite a
few unordered lists
in my design none of them have bullet
points though
but the default behavior and design and
presentation of bullet list
of unordered lists in the browser is to
add
little bullet points next to them so i'm
going to get rid of all those by
referencing the ul
and we put list style type none notice
how they all went away
i'm also going to get rid of any default
margin and padding that has been added
on behalf of the browser and we know
they've been out of because if we go to
control shift i
we click on this and we hover over here
we can see
both padding is added in the green
section on the left so there's padding
left added
and there's also a margin on the top and
bottom
i'm going to get rid of both of those
by default so margin 0 padding
0. so notice how it gets moved right up
against the edge of the browser
it looks ugly but don't worry we're
going to style all this stuff to make it
look a lot better also our sections
a section appears multiple times section
here
section there section there and i'm
going to add some
specific rule sets to that specific
properties rather we're going to do
padding
padding is cool because you can put like
five m units
and that will affect the padding
on the top bottom right and left but if
you want to
control specifically where it goes like
on like if you want to have
the top and bottom be a certain value in
the left and right be a different value
you put five m units on the top and
bottom and two units on the right and
left
you can take it a step further and
specify all four
so if you wanted like all four to be
different you would be you would put
top would be five n
uh right it works like a clock by the
way would be
uh eight m units maybe bottom might be
m units and then uh left would be
like 20 pixels so you can also mix your
units
but for me it's just gonna be five m
units on the top and bottom two m units
on the right and left
now that two m units on the right and
left
makes it so that we have white space on
the left portion of the browser
and now no longer is our content being
pushed against
on the edge all right
also let's get to this part
what's different about
this compared to this in terms of
alignment
well this is centered all this text is
centered
so oops i didn't want to do that
let me close that out i got the wrong
one there we go
so what we'll do is we see which
selector we want to use in order to take
all this text and make it centered
so if i
come down here there's our hero section
here's our text
we could probably say left call
make that all centered or we can come up
and just choose hero
and it'll make everything centered that
it can so hero
that's a class text align center
there it goes look at that we're getting
somewhere i'm telling you
it's looking a lot better now we need to
still work with this because this
still does not look like this
there's some differences right like this
is
different and this button is a lot
different so let's do that
left call because that's a class defined
right here
and that's that's responsible for all
this stuff right here
so we have our sub head inside of there
so we're going to do subhead
and by the way you can do this nesting
of sorts and not even specify a property
value if you don't want to
we can put in text transform
uppercase all right because this was
transformed to uppercase
font weight's going to be bold
save it color is going to be gray now
we're getting closer
letter spacing
is going to be 0.3 m units
so now look how close that looks to this
very very good next up this has to be
large or a headline or
h1 element right here
so we're going to put h1 font size 2.5 m
units
and how do i know that it's 2.5 i
experiment
so before i recorded this tutorial i
recreated all this
already that way you're not sitting
sitting there watching me bumble because
bumble over my words and my properties
and all that stuff because
even if somebody who's seasoned with
html and css
like myself it's it it's not always this
easy so
nobody wants to sit there watching me
trying to figure this out from scratch
although i'm sure some that would be a
good use case some people will want to
see um but just for making this
course faster and so that i can focus on
teaching rather than other stuff
i i did the project beforehand i know
some people they don't like that for
some reason but
trust me everybody does it and there's a
reason all right so line height
1.3 because right now the line height
between
this text is too far we're going to make
it a little bit
uh squished up and then margin top
because it but it does the bro the
browser does add default margin
to the h1 element we're going to do 1.2
or we're going to put 0.2
m units to get it closer to that sub
head see that
awesome next up let's dial this button
try for free
looks nothing like this try for free
button right
so how do we reference this button
well we can come back to our index.html
we can find try for free there it is
the class is primary cta so we put
dot primary cta and this is going to be
quite a few properties to achieve this
design so the first one is going to be
background because we have to make it a
blue color
just to show you again this is what it
looks like
right so background is going to be
var primary color because it's the same
color that we were using
so this is the first time we've we've
reused this same color
so now let me show you the power of the
properties custom properties
if i change this to green they change in
both
areas so it makes your life so much
easier all right
so background we got that set
we're going to take color white remember
it's text in there we want that to be
white so we save it and it
changes white as you can see we're going
to also do
text decoration
none that gets rid of the underline
we need padding look how tight like
there's not a lot of white space inside
remember padding is
for the inside white space padding is
going to be 0.6
m units on the top and bottom in 1.3 m
units on the left and right
we're also going to do font size we're
going to increase the size a bit to 1.4
m units we are also going to put in
border radius 5m units
so notice how the borders by default i
mean the border radius is just a
perfect like 90 degree angles we want it
to be a pill shaped
like this so to do that we put border
radius with some large amount
and it makes it that you can also put
like 0.5
m units and it'll just round it off
slightly but the greater this
is it'll make this all rounded
all right next up after that font weight
we're going to make bold
and then finally we're going to put
display inline
block all right so
now that's all the properties that we
need for this
so now what we want to do is we want to
style this thing
these need to be this icon needs to be
down here
as shown right here so
we go back here this is class watch
video cta
all right we're going to display block
that gets it away
we're going to do margin and this is
another thing you don't know
this is the same thing for padding and
margin you could put
margin right here and just we only want
margin on the top though
so we could put one m unit zero zero
zero on the
right left and bottom that'll work but a
better way
if you know you only want one direction
of
margin is put hyphen top or hyphen right
left or bottom
so now we just put in one m unit same
thing with padding by the way
all right so if i reset my browser down
to
back to 100 this is what it looks like
all right um we also have an issue
there's a lack of white space here
between here and here this this little
camera icon
so we're going to put image because
there's an image right here
we're going to put margin right
0.5 m units there we go
awesome so now we have this graphic
right here
we need to look more like this
it's smaller and it's pushed further
away down
so the
class is hero hyphen image
we're going to come out here we're going
to put width
you can put percentage values which is i
you know a relative type
unit and then we're going to put in
margin top
3m units and there we go much much
better so now
we compare these these are almost you
know these are pretty similar
this could be scaled down a little bit
more this icon probably a little bit
more white space
but really this is all quite close
in terms of appearance now of course if
we drag this out
it's going to look strange but don't
worry we'll fix that as well and
ultimately
make the desktop version look like that
but let's continue on now we have that
section where it has the features right
here
so we're going to reference our
features section we're going to say
background
and we have to get a background color so
i already know what that is it's going
to be
this value right here we save it and you
can see right there
now another thing sometimes if you just
have classes as selectors classes alone
it might be confusing sometimes it can
help
to put the actual i html element as well
so if we put section right there that's
in reference to the fact that this is a
section
with a class of hero so this can help
you
understand where it's coming from we're
also going to change
all the text to white because it's such
a dark background and we need that
contrast
all right now we have to work on this
features list
because it needs to look like this
all right so to do that we're going to
go ahead and
specify ul dot features
list so we're going to put so we have
like five properties to put we're gonna
put margin zero
we're going to oh and by the way um
definitely make sure
you put in let's see here
there we are um ul
dot the class is features list because i
didn't include that initially i just
added that off screen
um so ul's feature list so margin zero
padding left point one m units
all right so you can designate top right
left bottom for both padding
and margin if you just want to specify
one
um display grid
now this part's going to blow your mind
in fact you know what
i think we're gonna we're gonna wait
we're gonna wait for this
come back come back to this okay uh that
that's a comment you just put two
forward slashes
uh we're gonna i'm gonna wait for that
you'll see what i mean later on
so now that's um what we need to do now
is space these out further
and obviously make it look more
like this so
we're going to put list item font size
1.1 m units just to make it a little bit
larger
margin bottom to space them out from
each other more
1m unit margin left will be 2 m units
and we're moving it over with margin
left as you can see from here to there
because we need to make room for the
check mark
the way we can do the check mark is use
something new um
to you it's called a pseudoselector so
we put and before
the and is something that's only
specific to sas like working in the css
scss file um it just basically
will transpile into
before it'll look like that in your
main.css file
all right so we put and before
content is going to be empty position is
absolute
making an element uh or a rule set with
position absolute is a way to
i position an element within the
document
um and then you can use some other
values that you'll see in a second
we're going to put width of 20 20 pixels
height
of 20 pixels and a background
image so we can put url
we're going to come out of our css
folder
into the css into the images folder
bullet.svg
and as you can see if we save it we can
see it but it's broken right
background size we're going to put
contain
so that fixes it being um you know
broken
out of there because it's containing the
image and then margin right will be 0.5
m units
and then also we're going to put in
left negative 2 m units
now it's hidden that's because
if we want to position this element this
check mark
check mark relative to the container
that it's sending inside
we have to put position relative on its
parent
and there it is i know that's very
confusing it's more of an intermediate
to advanced sort of con concept
but bear with me so
i that is it for that portion now
this photograph doesn't exist in the
mobile version so we have to get rid of
it
so all we do is we're going to come out
here
features section image
display none there we've hidden it
all right i very cool so
next up we're going to worry about the
testimonial section
which is right here
now i'm not going to make these like
slide like carousel that's a little bit
too advanced we're just going to make
three of them like on stacked on top of
each other
so to do that we'll take a testimonials
hype and section background is going to
be var
primary color
and let's let's real quickly get in and
fix uh those large graphics those large
files
i mean the large image that's showing up
so inside of here
we have image and we're just gonna say
width
5m units height 5m units and that really
quickly just fix things right now now we
can start working within
some other stuff so our unordered list i
actually forgot we don't need
because we already styled and got rid of
the bullet points
i didn't do that in my reference codes
that's why i screwed up
so our list items they have a darker
background color
right here so we say background
0 0 6 bd6
so we can see that background now text
align oops
center that centers everything including
the image
padding will be 2m on the top and bottom
1m on the right and left
width will be about 80 percent
margin was going to be 0 on the top
auto on the right having auto on the
right and left will allow us to center
this element
5 am on the bottom there we go
and then we also have a border radius
not a order radius a border radius
of 1m units and that rounds off our
edges right here
our image we have some other properties
a border of 5 pixels
solid you can also have dashed and dots
and all that stuff
0 0 6b d6 the one we used above
can't see that but you will in a second
border radius we want this to be
circular 50 that's how you do that
border radius 50
and then margin top we want to move it
up on top
as you can see in a reference it's up
here not in the side
negative you could put negative values
4.5 m
units so we can put margin top margin
bottom margin right
and margin left now we also have to make
our
uh our text color white
as that completely does not look good so
testimonial section we actually have a
couple other things that we need to do
let's see here
color white there we go
all right very cool next up
is going to be the contact section
so our contact section has an h2 element
we want to make it a little bit bigger
font size 2m units
next up we have our labels name and
message these need to be
stacked like this
oops i never did it i never designed for
that
but they need to be stacked anyhow so
we're going to say label
display block there you go
font size will be a little bit bigger
so it enlarges them margin bottom
point five m units just to move it away
a little bit
then we have our input
and our text area which is this element
and then this element beneath it the
part that people type in
width is going to be 100 percent
and padding will be 0.8 m units on the
inside to make it larger
margin bottom
will be 1 m units to push them away from
each other just a little bit border
but we don't need to do a border because
it's looking decent already border
radius will be
0.3 emitters to round the corners oh
border in order to fix that issue where
it made them real dark
border one pixel solid you can also have
like dashed and all that
um gray that's a new
uh that's the way you colorize it
obviously if you make this
larger you know it'll make it a thicker
border
also box sizing border hyphen box
i notice the width of these right now if
we save this
it brings them in and when it comes to
elements that have
margin and padding applied to them when
you use like width 100 percent
it can make them extend out too far and
create horizontal scroll bars
and such so that's how you fix that
next up our input button
right here
we need to style that so
input type equals submit
yes that is one way that you can i
choose a selector
we could we do have a class and we could
just put class
like this send message instead of doing
this
we can just do that but i want to show
you other ways to
select so what this is is the eight it's
the html element with brackets
designated only to spec to choose uh
attributes of type submit so isn't that
cool yes it is
background color very variable um
primary color
so you can see it turns blue on the
right color is going to be white
font weight will be bold font size will
be
font size e oh my 1.3 i'm trying to type
too fast
border is going to be none
margin bottom will be 5 m units to push
that
map away border radius will be 5 m units
to make it a pill shaped container
display is going to be let's do inline
block
it's too big and large for me so if we
do inline block
and then make padding point
am units and two m units and then
take width and say unset now
we have this over here uh it's much
smaller oh cursor
pointer now it changes to a pointer
all right and then finally we're just
about done
iframe it's really big right now it's
creating these
horizontal scroll bars for us so let's
just take our iframe which is the google
embed code
with 100
height like we'll do 300 pixels
there we go now this is pretty much done
for the mobile view
except this doesn't work up here
like we click it nothing happens right
well we need it to show
you know our navigation all right
so what we're going to do now is start
focusing on building out
our our nav or our navigation that shows
up
so to do that temporarily we're going to
come up here and
see where it says nav display none i'm
going to comment that out
so now it's going to show it so that we
can start styling it the way we want now
i don't have
it designed here the way i want it you
know i don't have the nav bar design so
you're just gonna have to
trust in my judgment here there's many
different ways to design these things
so what i'm gonna do is put nav
menu btn we're going to say display
block all right and then
our nav which contains our unordered
list
our two on our lists because this is a
list and this is a list
we're going to put position fixed
because it's going to sit on top of
everything
and it's going to come out like to like
66 percent or two-thirds of the browser
and just lay on top of there it's going
to be a big bar
so position fixed when we scroll notice
how it stays up on top of
here all the time that's what position
fix
one of the things position position fix
does we're also going to put z index
999 a really high value z and x
when it you can you can place onto
elements that have position absolute or
position fixed
a really high z index means it's going
to sit on top of everything
because we want this menu to sit on top
of everything
next up is going to be width we're going
to do 66 percent
we're also going to put right zero so
it's going to push that
whole area over there to the right top
is going to also
be zero means it's going to be very top
of the document
background is going to be our dark color
that we used
for the features section
so notice now we can start to see it
come to come alive essentially
height is going to be 100 viewport
height a vh is another one of those
relative units
it just means the height of the the
device of the browser that you're
looking at
padding 1m unit on the inside
next up we're going to take our ul
primary nav margin top
5m unit so you're going to see this
navigation push down
right there all right we're not done yet
list item
now i realized i don't think i actually
had any properties there but we're going
to
get into the a and we'll say color white
text decoration none
uh display block we have to put display
block on a
elements or their your hyperlink
elements um if we want to add padding
and like margin stuff
so padding will be point five end units
this will increase uh
white space font size
will be 1.3 m units to make it larger
and then text align will be right
all right and then also something that's
cool if we hover over these nothing
happens
sometimes you can change the color on
hover and other things put and hover
font wait we can make bold that's one
thing we can change so watch look at
that
all right very very very cool all right
this over here this button we want to
push to the right because it looks so
weird left aligned
so what we'll do is i that has a class
of mobile
menu exit float right we'll push it
right
margin would be like 0.5 m units and
then
cursor pointer so now we hover
like that and that's our mobile
navigation that's what that looks like
so now we're going to go back up to the
top and hide this
all right so now we're going to get into
something that's very scary for
newcomers and that is javascript
so javascript i will allow us
when somebody clicks this to attach a
class
onto this what's called a dom element or
this element right here
or to the nav element rather and allows
us to
add a css class that will toggle on that
display property
to show it when it's clicked so we can
put
script at the very bottom just above the
closing body tag
and we can put we have to define three
different properties here
const so it's going to be a constant you
can also put let
mobile btn usually instead of using
hyphens
or instead of using hyphens you use
camel case so we're going to
mobile btn here in javascript equals
document
dot get element by id
mobile hyphen cta this basically allows
us to
in the future reference
the button right here because if we look
at it
we have the id of mobile cta
that's how we get it in javascript now
we take off the semicolon
we don't have to put const again we can
just define a bunch of them like nav
google document dot query
selector nav
so you use getelementbyid for elements
that have an id
attribute or if you just want to select
an element name like div or whatever or
label
i you can just put the actual element
name
so instead of get element id it's query
selector where there's only one nav so
we just choose nav
um then one more
and that's going to be mobile btn exit
that's going to be that white
x uh button
and it has an idea of mobile exit so now
we put the semicolon at the end
and we have three different properties
or variables that we can now access
so we say mobile btn we're going to add
an event listener
of a click type there's a bunch of
different type of event listeners like
when mouse hover like when the mouse
moves over it or whatever
this is a click or when somebody taps it
um
we open this up into here so this is the
first parameter
this is an arrow function i'm not going
to really bother explaining
if you're brand new to javascript but
basically what this means is when
somebody clicks on
that button right here do whatever is
inside of these
squiggly brackets okay so what what do
we want to happen
well we want to take our navigation
right here
which is currently hidden with display
none
we want to attach a class i
that will change it to display block
all right so to do that we say nav which
is defined right here
dot class list dot add because we want
to add one
menu hyphen btn
now menu hyphen btn
i believe we don't yet have defined
let me see if we do ctrl f to find
yeah there it is nav we already defined
it display block
so that's the purpose javascript is
going to add that
when this gets clicked so if we hit save
click
there it is all right so also what
happens when somebody clicks this we
have to hide it right
so let's just copy these three lines
and we're going to change this to uh
mobile btn exit
on click we're going to basically class
list remove
so we click this it adds it now it
removes it
look at that how exciting all right so
now at this point this is where we're
going to get into responsive
css design right now this design is not
responsive it only works it's only made
to work and look
good and functional on mobile because
look what happens here
i mean this does not look good
right right
and this doesn't make sense so we need
to make it responsive
all right so we do that through what's
called media
queries we come right to the bottom here
so we have to ask ourselves and this is
helpful to have the
um the dev tools open control shift i
um because when you have those open and
you
kind of shrink the browser in you can
see little i
coordinates up there like 545 pixels by
1360 or whatever we're looking at the
first value because that's the width
value
and we have to ask ourselves at what
point should the design start to change
so at what point if i'm looking at this
nav bar we're looking at things top
bottom now
when it comes to responsive design at
what point do we have enough room to
show
all those menu items up here right
so around 768
or something that's a common break point
but really for this design
that makes sense we have enough room at
this size to
hide this menu and then just show all
those links automatically for like a
tablet
or a really large phone so we're going
to go ahead the way you
you you do this is through what's called
a media query
and here's what it looks like let me
just
copy and paste it off screen
so it says media only screen and minimum
width
768 pixels so any rule sets
this is where we put our rule sets
inside of here so any rule sets in here
will only apply
if it's basically a
768 pixels and larger
so it's really uh dynamic and flexible
so the first thing we want to do is hide
we want to hide
this net this little hamburger menu
because we don't need it at that point
so what we do is say mobile menu
and mobile menu exit because we don't
need to see the exit button either
display none now when i save it we don't
see it because we're not
at 768 pixels watch this
there we go it hides here let's get this
back to 100
there we go yeah it actually hides right
there exactly as we wanted it
so our navbar container
we're going to put in just
display grid now right now we can't see
anything so
maybe i need to add a couple of other
things so
our navbar nav
we're going to say display flex
now we see it okay now we have some work
to do
in order to get this fixed up let me
drag this
in so we can see this so our container
is the parent of our nav bar so if we go
up here we see diff class container then
we see
our nav right here and then inside of a
nav
we have this right here and this right
here
so we're going to use a display grid
and grid template
columns i was showing you the wrong
thing
we're working on our container and we're
making it a grid container right now
right here and then we have our logo
and then our nav so two elements this
one's hidden at this this eye
media query so display grid we have two
columns
180 pixels or so for our logo and then
auto
means just take up the rest of the space
for the rest of it
all right so now we end up pushing that
over um
then we're going to put
justify content
on unset now that's because
up here in our container we had just
oh wait place content i think i meant to
put place content on set there
either way i think we can just get
remove it but we'll see
all right so now we have our
nav we're going to put justify
content space hyphen between
we're also going to put background none
now we can't see anything the position
will be unset because it's currently
fixed
height is going to put set to auto
because it's currently 100
viewport height that's why it's all
white
and then we're going to put width 100
and padding will be zero
and now we're going to come out and
specify
the unordered list inside of them
display
flex now right now we can't even see
what's happening because the text is
white so let's
take our our links make um color black
there we go so our our um
our colors right here let me come down
here for our links we're going to do
font size 1m unit
and padding will be 0.1 m unit on the
top and bottom in one
end unit on a right and left now right
now these are not
structured uh properly at all
now let me see if the fix
was this justify content on set
okay it wasn't right now they're not uh
situated
as they should be as shown here
because they all need to be looking like
this
so let me continue on writing with the
the
the information here or the rule set so
we're gonna have ul primary hyphen nav
and set the margin to zero there we go
now that was the issue it was pushed
down because uh it was so up high there
okay so now and by the way we can go
back
and this still works because all the css
we're writing now is only for
beyond this point all right next up
li current a all right
oh let me see what i'm doing here
yeah the font weight's going to be bold
and we're also going to put in li go
hyphen premium
cta a
and we need this go premium button to
look like
what it does on desktop oops wrong thing
i open up my discord
right here so
we're going to do color it's going to be
our variable primary color
you can see it's changing up top up here
we're going to put
border of 3 pixels solid var
primary color as well so now we can see
what it looks like
getting there font weight will be bold
border radius will be 5
m units to give it that pill shape
and then margin top will be
negative 2 0.2 m units
that way it's a little bit situated
better now what about when we hover it i
think it would be cool to make it
inverse in terms of uh
the background color so in hover
background
var primary color
color will be white so watch this
isn't that cool so hopefully you're
starting to pick up on stuff
so that's the only thing i really want
to change on that resolution
oh this i do want to change remember i
was telling you about the um
this real cool css grid uh there's
something
where it says come back to this this is
where we're going to do this right now
we have enough room
to position these so that they're in two
columns
or more so the way you do that
is by making it a display grid
and we add this very special property
it's very complex this is definitely a
more
advanced level thing we make it a
display grid then we do
grid template columns and we're going to
put
a repeat function auto fit
min max 19 rem units one fractional
unit right here so it automatically
knows
if it doesn't have enough room keep them
all in one column
if it has enough room maybe do two and
then three and then so on
very very cool all right
next up i we're going to go ahead and
focus
on the next viewport all right and
that's going to be around
1080 pixels so if we go ctrl shift i
we drag this out right around 1080 or so
we have enough room to split this into
two columns like it shows here
so let's do that
all right so let's go ahead i'm going to
copy
off screen here's a rule set
1080 pixels remember the other one was
above it is 768.
our container this is where our
container remember we were adding that
container element everywhere with the
div container
width will be 1080 pixels and then the
margin will be zero auto that
basically will center everything
so that and the reason i do this is when
we expand look how it's all centered it
right at 1080 it stops being fluid
and then it just centers so that's a way
to have a centered
eye container basically and then that's
applied all down here too
all right so next up our section let's
increase the padding the white space
through padding 10 n units on the top
and bottom
and four and a right left right now it's
like before this it was set at
on our section element five and two
so now let's push that down now let's
work on this area
so we're going to take our hero and the
container inside of it
we're going to say display flex that
gets them
situated beside each other justify
content is going to be space
between
all right not much has changed except
they are floating left and right
we want to text align left because right
now it's centered
oops that's not working well don't worry
we'll get to it i
this is supposed to be text align
left and i'm not sure why it is
not doing that well let's figure it out
and do some debugging
because that's how i figured it would
work let's get back out here
all right so this is left call
container let's see as you can see we
can click on these and you can see all
the text align
center right here
and text line center right here but it's
not overriding it
so what we could do is we can put in
left call as you can see it's right here
and it contains all this information
text oh my god
i'm stupid this happens left
now it's gonna make it left i was
wondering why wasn't it going left well
it's because i made it
center i made it like what was i
thinking i've been recording far too
long
okay let's continue on
all right what else should change here
um the margin
of this left column it's it's all messed
up so
left call we'll say margin 3am units on
the top 3m units on the right zero on
the bottom five
m units on the left so we can move it in
a little bit
we'll take our h1 element make it larger
font size three 3m units
and width we'll do 90 percent
all right our hero image
right here let's come out
after this third closing hero hyphen
image
width will be 30 percent
margin right we're going to push it away
by 8m units so now it's looking good
i like it all right so now
our cta right here try for free these
this watch a video should be right here
and they're wrapped in a parent
container
of hero cta
so let's reference that
so for that one let's see here we're
going to put
hero cta display
flex so now it's right there but we need
to push it away a little bit
so we do primary cta
which is the big blue button margin
right
1m unit there we go
then we have our
after that we have our features list
right here
and at this point in the actual
desktop version they're all on top of
each other
so now we'll take our ul features list
we'll display block
so now it pushes them all there
and we'll say margin left 5 m units
and then we're going to take our font
size
and or our list item rather make the
font size 1.4 m units
just to make them bigger and before we
have to beef up the size of these
because they're too small now
in relation to the size of the text so
width from 30 from 20 pixels to 30.
there we go next up
i we're going to put in
our features i we have this photograph
right here and so i think
yeah feature section right here so we're
going to reference this by feature
section
img because the image is inside of the
feature section
so we're going to come out here
and put features section
position relative because we're going to
absolutely position
the features section image
so or we could just nest the image
inside of here
by the way so i'm just showing you can
do you know things multiple
ways display block
so that's going to show it now now
notice
in the design it's positioned over here
to the right
absolute
right is going to be zero
width will be like 350 pixels
and bottom will be negative 2 m units
and there we go all right
now at this size uh this viewport
resolution
we don't have enough space to add in
these elements because they would
overlap so we're going to do that at a
larger viewport
in a bit next up is this section here so
now we're going to come and specify our
testimonials
section unordered list display flex
that'll float them all next to each
other
list item margin is going to be zero
on the top and bottom one end units on
the right and left
see that isn't that awesome all right
our contact section again we'll do a
position relative here
and in our container inside of it will
be display
flex because there's two columns here
so now this looks ugly so
this iframe is inside of a parent
container called contact
right position will be absolute
right will be zero top will be zero
and then we're going to do width about
uh height is going to be 100
and then our iframe height also has to
be set to 100 percent
look at that
very awesome so that's it for that media
query
now next one the final one and guess
what we're almost done
is to show these two elements
which are right here all right so
we're going to use the before and after
pseudo selector on this section
which is feature section so
for this one we're gonna have enough
room around 1450 pixels
so features section
we can put and before
content is empty position will be
absolute
width will be about 10 percent height
will be
we'll just do 20 m units background is
going to be var
primary color so now if we save this
we don't yet see it but don't worry i'm
going to get it
so we can see it in a second left is
going to be 0 and top will be
negative 4
m units all right so right now
i do not see it so let me make sure
that we're doing everything right we'll
go ahead and try to
ascertain the issue so let's get out our
depth tools because i want to show that
because
this is not supposed to happen oh wait
that's why
we weren't large enough we we weren't up
to 1450.
now it's right there okay and then we're
going to do the after
the after is going to allow us to
specify the little
um graphics the dots all right so
it's going to be pretty similar except
for width it's going to be 200 pixels
height that'll be 20 m units as well in
the background this time is going to be
a url
we're going to do images dots.svg
no repeat because we don't want it to
repeat
all right there's that
for some reason the other thing oh
after change that to after there we go
and then now we have to position it
better
so the left is going to be like 4.5 m
units
and the top will be like 2 m units
look at that pretty similar to what we
have here
all right believe it or not we are
actually
done let me close this so now we can see
what this design looks like and how it's
responsive so on a phone it's going to
look something like this
we're going to get a little bit larger
and then
around like a tablet it's gonna we're
gonna have enough room so we can show
all of our navigation items
nothing else changes though still looks
good
one thing that did change was this
because we went from
all of them being collapsed to two
columns
then we come out of here
and a lot of stuff changes
so notice how these are all on top of
each other and then they
go into one row and then finally
we come out here
and we have another additional item that
shows up just as a graphic
and then uh also our navigation
this works as well
how awesome is that alright so hopefully
you enjoyed that i know that was a
whirlwind that was so much information
on packed in and if you're a beginner
you might be discouraged a little bit
hopefully not i want to use this
as kind of just a bird's eye view a
macro level perspective
of what the process is of front-end
development which is the you know
writing of html css and javascript
um you're not going to walk away having
a lot of confidence just by watching
this one video you have to keep trying
and have to keep learning different
things
so with that said if you want to keep
learning more and you're interested in
this stuff definitely
subscribe to my youtube channel here
click the bell notification icon
i check out my site designcourse.com and
i'll see you
next time goodbye
bye